# The Nested Internship
Like many technology-consulting companies, we’ve talked about creating an internship program for years, but we never quite managed to get around to making it happen. This year was different - we asked ourselves, “why not this year,” and we made the leap to help the next generation of students transition to computer professionals. 

We started the process as I imagine most companies do with an uninspiring internship plan; a college junior or senior computer science major, etc...  At our first meeting to review the plan, we hit our first bump when a co-worker asked the question - should we be targeting college students or maybe we should be considering high school students. He asked this because Ohio offers high school students an option to earn an Honors STEM diploma, which requires a work-study experience. 

This was an interesting idea but having worked with high school students in the past, my experience was that it was like herding kittens and would require too much supervision. That’s when inspiration hit and the idea of a nested internship took form. What if we hired a college intern for the entire summer and assigned them the task of designing and implementing a high school internship for four students? The college intern’s time could be split roughly 50/50, with the first 50% doing regular work assignments to get that real-world experience. The second 50% could be working on creating and running a HS internship that would take place the last two weeks of summer. This would allow us to reach out to both groups, and since the college intern would be responsible for working with the high school students, it would minimize the impact on the rest of our staff. Additionally, the college intern would get valuable experience working in a leadership role and would be mentoring the HS students as they prepare to transition from HS to college.

And then things got really interesting...

This repository contains an article describing the entire project, perspectives from all of it's particpants and many of the documents created during the planning and development of that internship. It also contains the project created by our college intern and his crack team of high school interns that was deployed to the local library as an IoT learning lab. 

We strongly encourage anyone thinking about creating an internship program to ask yourself, “why not this year” and then take that leap to make a difference. It’s worth the effort.
